# Car Here Now history
This is final project for the course, INFO-664: *Programming for Cultural Heritage* taught by [Matt Miller](https://github.com/thisismattmiller "Matt Miller"), which I took for fun while employed at the Pratt Institute School of Information in Spring 2021.

## Project Overview
The goal of the project was to analyze all of the data my partner and I collected over roughly the past year and a half on when and where we’ve parked our car, which has been tracked via a mobile parking app that we created called Car Here Now.

While it would have been ideal to work with the data in realtime, for the purposes of this project I downloaded a JSON export on May 8, 2021 of all of our parking data to work with.

### Steps
In order to traverse the data, I began by writing a program in Python to parse the raw information in the JSON file and make it easier to work with (`cardata_parse.py`). The geographic coordinates were stored in one string along with a code that indicated who parked the car, so I first split up those pieces of information. For clarity, I changed the parker IDs to our first names. There were also some entries missing IDs from a glitch in a previous version of the app, but we knew they all belonged to me so I added my name to those as well. I then utilized a few Python modules to determine the day of the week for each entry and to get more location information based on the latitude and longitude of each parking instance (e.g., street address, neighborhood, city, etc.). Finally, I wrote this out out to a new JSON file. 

Now that I had a clean new JSON file to work with, I wrote a second program in Python to explore our parking habits by days of the week (`parking_by_day.py`). I first sorted all of the the entries into 7 lists based on the days of the week. Since we moved about 9 months ago, I also wanted to just look at parking habits in my current neighborhood, as that is what I am currently most interested in. I weeded out all entries that weren’t in my current neighborhood and sorted those results into 7 more lists based on days of the week. I exported all 14 of these lists a separate CSV files (to be uploaded to Google My Maps). I also did counts to see what the numbers of parks were like based on days of the week both in my current neighborhood, and throughout our history using Car Here Now. Unsurprisingly, I learned that we park most often on weekends.

I was also interested in seeing our parking habits from before the COVID-19 pandemic and how those compared to our current parking habits, so I wrote a third program in Python (`parking_covid.py`). I separated all of our parking entries by pre- and post-COVID. I chose March 15, 2020 as the cutoff date for pre-COVID entries as the next day is when NYC schools closed and I transitioned to 100% remote work. I used the datetime module to figure out the oldest entry in our database (August 20, 2019) and calculate total number of days we used Car Here Now to track our parking both pre-COVID (206 days) and post-COVID (417 days). With this information, I could then use simple operations to determine our average number of times we parked per week pre-COVID (4.8) and post-COVID (3.4) as well the percentage decrease in parking (29%). 

## How to make the code work
In order to to run the code you will need a copy of the JSON export of my raw parking data (`cardata_export_raw.json`). For privacy reasons, this is not available on my public repo. 
